README.md, before:

# Purifier Card

[![npm version][npm-image]][npm-url]
[![hacs][hacs-image]][hacs-url]
[![Patreon][patreon-image]][patreon-url]
[![Buy Me A Coffee][buymeacoffee-image]][buymeacoffee-url]
[![Twitter][twitter-image]][twitter-url]

> Air Purifier card for [Home Assistant][home-assistant] Lovelace UI

By default, the Home Assistant does not provide any card for controlling air purifiers. This card displays the state and allows to control your air purifier.

![Preview of purifier-card][preview-image]

## Installing

**💡 Tip:** If you like this project ~~and want to get some stickers and postcards~~, consider becoming a patron:

<a href="https://patreon.com/denysdovhan">
  <img alt="Become a patron" src="https://c5.patreon.com/external/logo/become_a_patron_button@2x.png" width="150px">
</a>

or just buy me a cup of ☕️ or 🥤:

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/denysdovhan" target="_blank">
  <img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-black.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" width="150px">
</a>

### HACS

This card is available in [HACS][hacs] (Home Assistant Community Store).

Just search for `Purifier Card` in the plugins tab.

### Manual

1. Download `purifier-card.js` file from the [latest-release].
2. Put `purifier-card.js` file into your `config/www` folder.
3. Add a reference to `purifier-card.js` in Lovelace. There's two way to do that:
   1. **Using UI:** _Configuration_ → _Lovelace Dashboards_ → _Resources_ → Click Plus button → Set _Url_ as `/local/purifier-card.js` → Set _Resource type_ as `JavaScript Module`.
   2. **Using YAML:** Add the following code to `lovelace` section.
      ```yaml
      resources:
        - url: /local/purifier-card.js
          type: module
      ```
4. Add `custom:purifier-card` to Lovelace UI as any other card (using either editor or YAML configuration).

## Using the card

This card can be configured using Lovelace UI editor.

1. In Lovelace UI, click 3 dots in top left corner.
2. Click _Configure UI_.
3. Click Plus button to add a new card.
4. Find _Custom: Purifier Card_ in the list.
5. Choose `entity`.
6. Now you should see the preview of the card!

_Sorry, no support for `actions` and `stats` in visual config yet._

Typical example of using this card in YAML config would look like this:

```yaml
type: 'custom:purifier-card'
entity: fan.purifier
stats:
  - attribute: filter_life_remaining
    unit: '%'
    subtitle: Filter Remaining
  - attribute: motor_speed
    unit: RPS
    subtitle: Motor Speed
actions:
  - name: Silent
    icon: 'mdi:weather-night'
    speed: Silent
  - name: 25%
    icon: 'mdi:circle-slice-2'
    speed: Favorite
    xiaomi_miio_favorite_level: 3
  - name: 50%
    icon: 'mdi:circle-slice-4'
    speed: Favorite
    xiaomi_miio_favorite_level: 7
  - name: 75%
    icon: 'mdi:circle-slice-6'
    speed: Favorite
    xiaomi_miio_favorite_level: 10
  - name: 100%
    icon: 'mdi:circle-slice-8'
    speed: Favorite
    xiaomi_miio_favorite_level: 14
  - name: Auto
    icon: 'mdi:brightness-auto'
    speed: Auto
show_name: true
show_state: true
show_toolbar: true
compact_view: false
```

Here is what every option means:

| Name              |   Type    | Default      | Description                                      |
| ----------------- | :-------: | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `type`            | `string`  | **Required** | `custom:purifier-card`                           |
| `entity`          | `string`  | **Required** | An entity_id within the `fan` domain.            |
| `show_name`       | `boolean` | `true`       | Show friendly name of the purifier.              |
| `show_status`     | `boolean` | `true`       | Show status of the purifier.                     |
| `show_speed`      | `boolean` | `false`      | Show speed of the purifier in the header.        |
| `show_preset_mode`| `boolean` | `true`       | Show preset mode of the purifier in the header.  |
| `show_toolbar`    | `boolean` | `true`       | Show toolbar with actions.                       |
| `compact_view`    | `boolean` | `false`      | Compact view without image.                      |
| `aqi`             | `object`  | Optional     | Custom entity or attribute for AQI value.        |
| `stats`           | `object`  | Optional     | Custom per state stats for your purifier cleaner |
| `actions`         | `object`  | Optional     | Custom actions for your purifier cleaner.        |

### `aqi` object

| Name        |   Type   | Default  | Description                                         |
| ----------- | :------: | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `entity_id` | `string` | Optional | An entity_id with state, i.e. `sensor.current_aqi`. |
| `attribute` | `string` | Optional | An attribute which should be used to get AQI value. |
| `unit`      | `string` | Optional | An unit of measurement to display.                  |

### `stats` object

You can use any attribute of purifier or even any entity by `entity_id` to display by stats section:

| Name        |   Type   | Default  | Description                                          |
| ----------- | :------: | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `entity_id` | `string` | Optional | An entity_id with state, i.e. `sensor.purifier_aqi`. |
| `attribute` | `string` | Optional | Attribute name of the stat, i.e. `filter_left`.      |
| `unit`      | `string` | Optional | Unit of measure, i.e. `hours`.                       |
| `subtitle`  | `string` | Optional | Friendly name of the stat, i.e. `Filter`.            |

### `actions` object

You can define [custom scripts][ha-scripts] for custom actions or add shortcuts for switching modes and speeds via `actions` option.

| Name                         |   Type   | Default  | Description                                                                                                                                     |
| ---------------------------- | :------: | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`                       | `string` | Optional | Friendly name of the action, i.e. `Switch to Auto`.                                                                                             |
| `icon`                       | `string` | Optional | Any icon for action button.                                                                                                                     |
| `service`                    | `string` | Optional | A service to call, i.e. `script.clean_air`.                                                                                                     |
| `service_data`               | `object` | Optional | `service_data` for `service` call                                                                                                               |
| `speed`                      | `object` | Optional | A `speed` to switch to, i.e. `Auto`, etc                                                                                                        |
| `xiaomi_miio_favorite_level` | `object` | Optional | A [favorite level][xiaomi-miio-favorite-levels] of the operation mode `Favorite` for Xioami Air Purifiers. `speed` is required with this option |

The card will automatically try to figure out which one of actions is currently active. The action will be highlighted when:

1. It's a service.
2. `entity`'s `speed` attribute is equal to `action`'s `speed`.
3. `entity`'s `speed` attribute and `favorite_level` is equal to `action`'s `speed` and `xiaomi_miio_favorite_level` correspondingly.

## Animations

I've added an animation for this card to make it alive:

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3459374/94728037-48ee7000-0368-11eb-8637-c8bbc5ffaf99.gif" width="500px">

How did I make this animation? It's a long story…

1. I took original gif file from [here][original-gif].
2. Then I tweaked image levels to make the background black and purifier white.
3. Then I inverted colors on the gif.
4. Then I've split the gif by frame.
5. Then I removed the background of the image frame by frame using remove.bg.
6. Then I upscaled each of those images using icons8.com/upscaler.
7. Then I put up all of those images back in a single gif.
8. Profit!

Archive with images from all of these steps [can be found here](https://t.me/denysandtech/185).

## Supported languages

This card supports translations. Please, help to add more translations and improve existing ones. Here's a list of supported languages:

- English
- Українська (Ukrainian)
- Türkçe (Turkish)
- Français (French)
- Norsk (Norwegian)
- Polski (Polish)
- Български (Bulgarian)
- 简体中文 (Simplified Chinese)
- Deutsch (German)
- Català (Catalan)
- Русский (Russian)
- Italiano (Italian)
- [_Your language?_][add-translation]

## Supported models

This card relies on basic fan services, like `toggle`, `turn_on`, `turn_off`, etc. It should work with any air purifier, however I can physically test it only with my own purifier.

If this card works with your air purifier, please open a PR and your model to the list.

- Air Purifier 3/3H
- Air Purifier 2/2H/2S
- Air Purifier Pro
- Coway Airmega 300S/400S ([using IoCare custom component](https://github.com/sarahhenkens/home-assistant-iocare))
- Dyson Pure Humidify+Cool ([using Dyson integration](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/dyson/))
- Winix AM90 Wi-Fi Air Purifier
- Philips AirPurifier AC3858/50 (partially) 
- [_Your purifier?_][edit-readme]
- SmartMI Air Purifier

## Development

Want to contribute to the project?

First of all, thanks! Check [contributing guideline](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## Inspiration

This project is heavily inspired by:

- [MacBury Smart House][macbury-smart-house] — basically, this project is a refinement of MacBury's custom card.

Huge thanks for their ideas and efforts 👍

## License

MIT © [Denys Dovhan][denysdovhan]

<!-- Badges -->

[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/purifier-card
[npm-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/purifier-card.svg?style=flat-square
[hacs-url]: https://github.com/custom-components/hacs
[hacs-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/hacs-default-orange.svg?style=flat-square
[patreon-url]: https://patreon.com/denysdovhan
[patreon-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/support-patreon-F96854.svg?style=flat-square
[buymeacoffee-url]: https://patreon.com/denysdovhan
[buymeacoffee-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/support-buymeacoffee-222222.svg?style=flat-square
[twitter-url]: https://twitter.com/denysdovhan
[twitter-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-%40denysdovhan-00ACEE.svg?style=flat-square

<!-- References -->

[home-assistant]: https://www.home-assistant.io/
[hacs]: https://hacs.xyz
[preview-image]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3459374/94727372-4ccdc280-0367-11eb-8294-1e5c06a1fe93.png
[latest-release]: https://github.com/denysdovhan/purifier-card/releases/latest
[ha-scripts]: https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/scripts/
[xiaomi-miio-favorite-levels]: https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/xiaomi_miio/#service-xiaomi_miiofan_set_favorite_level-air-purifiers-only
[original-gif]: https://github.com/macbury/SmartHouse/blob/master/home-assistant/www/custom-lovelace/air-purifier/standby.gif
[edit-readme]: https://github.com/denysdovhan/purifier-card/edit/master/README.md
[add-translation]: https://github.com/denysdovhan/purifier-card/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#how-to-add-translation
[macbury-smart-house]: https://macbury.github.io/SmartHouse/HomeAssistant/Lovelace/#air-purifier
[denysdovhan]: https://denysdovhan.com

Commit message:

feat: added switch and background options

README.md, after:

# Purifier Card

[![npm version][npm-image]][npm-url]
[![hacs][hacs-image]][hacs-url]
[![Patreon][patreon-image]][patreon-url]
[![Buy Me A Coffee][buymeacoffee-image]][buymeacoffee-url]
[![Twitter][twitter-image]][twitter-url]

> Air Purifier card for [Home Assistant][home-assistant] Lovelace UI

By default, the Home Assistant does not provide any card for controlling air purifiers. This card displays the state and allows to control your air purifier.

![Preview of purifier-card][preview-image]

## Installing

**💡 Tip:** If you like this project ~~and want to get some stickers and postcards~~, consider becoming a patron:

<a href="https://patreon.com/denysdovhan">
  <img alt="Become a patron" src="https://c5.patreon.com/external/logo/become_a_patron_button@2x.png" width="150px">
</a>

or just buy me a cup of ☕️ or 🥤:

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/denysdovhan" target="_blank">
  <img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-black.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" width="150px">
</a>

### HACS

This card is available in [HACS][hacs] (Home Assistant Community Store).

Just search for `Purifier Card` in the plugins tab.

### Manual

1. Download `purifier-card.js` file from the [latest-release].
2. Put `purifier-card.js` file into your `config/www` folder.
3. Add a reference to `purifier-card.js` in Lovelace. There's two way to do that:
   1. **Using UI:** _Configuration_ → _Lovelace Dashboards_ → _Resources_ → Click Plus button → Set _Url_ as `/local/purifier-card.js` → Set _Resource type_ as `JavaScript Module`.
   2. **Using YAML:** Add the following code to `lovelace` section.
      ```yaml
      resources:
        - url: /local/purifier-card.js
          type: module
      ```
4. Add `custom:purifier-card` to Lovelace UI as any other card (using either editor or YAML configuration).

## Using the card

This card can be configured using Lovelace UI editor.

1. In Lovelace UI, click 3 dots in top left corner.
2. Click _Configure UI_.
3. Click Plus button to add a new card.
4. Find _Custom: Purifier Card_ in the list.
5. Choose `entity`.
6. Now you should see the preview of the card!

_Sorry, no support for `actions` and `stats` in visual config yet._

Typical example of using this card in YAML config would look like this:

```yaml
type: 'custom:purifier-card'
entity: fan.purifier
stats:
  - attribute: filter_life_remaining
    unit: '%'
    subtitle: Filter Remaining
  - attribute: motor_speed
    unit: RPS
    subtitle: Motor Speed
actions:
  - name: Silent
    icon: 'mdi:weather-night'
    speed: Silent
  - name: 25%
    icon: 'mdi:circle-slice-2'
    speed: Favorite
    xiaomi_miio_favorite_level: 3
  - name: 50%
    icon: 'mdi:circle-slice-4'
    speed: Favorite
    xiaomi_miio_favorite_level: 7
  - name: 75%
    icon: 'mdi:circle-slice-6'
    speed: Favorite
    xiaomi_miio_favorite_level: 10
  - name: 100%
    icon: 'mdi:circle-slice-8'
    speed: Favorite
    xiaomi_miio_favorite_level: 14
  - name: Auto
    icon: 'mdi:brightness-auto'
    speed: Auto
show_name: true
show_state: true
show_toolbar: true
compact_view: false
```

Here is what every option means:

| Name              |   Type    | Default      | Description                                      |
| ----------------- | :-------: | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `type`            | `string`  | **Required** | `custom:purifier-card`                           |
| `entity`          | `string`  | **Required** | An entity_id within the `fan` domain.            |
| `show_name`       | `boolean` | `true`       | Show friendly name of the purifier.              |
| `show_status`     | `boolean` | `true`       | Show status of the purifier.                     |
| `show_speed`      | `boolean` | `false`      | Show speed of the purifier in the header.        |
| `show_preset_mode`| `boolean` | `true`       | Show preset mode of the purifier in the header.  |
| `show_toolbar`    | `boolean` | `true`       | Show toolbar with actions.                       |
| `compact_view`    | `boolean` | `false`      | Compact view without image.                      |
| `aqi`             | `object`  | Optional     | Custom entity or attribute for AQI value.        |
| `stats`           | `object`  | Optional     | Custom per state stats for your purifier cleaner |
| `actions`         | `object`  | Optional     | Custom actions for your purifier cleaner.        |
| `switch`          | `object`  | Optional     | Custom switch to determine the state of purifier.|
| `switch_on_action`| `object`  | Optional     | Custom action to turn on purifier.               |
|`switch_off_action`| `object`  | Optional     | Custom action to turn off purifier.              |
| `background`      | `boolean` | `true`       | Show primary color as background.                |

### `aqi` object

| Name        |   Type   | Default  | Description                                         |
| ----------- | :------: | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `entity_id` | `string` | Optional | An entity_id with state, i.e. `sensor.current_aqi`. |
| `attribute` | `string` | Optional | An attribute which should be used to get AQI value. |
| `unit`      | `string` | Optional | An unit of measurement to display.                  |

### `stats` object

You can use any attribute of purifier or even any entity by `entity_id` to display by stats section:

| Name        |   Type   | Default  | Description                                          |
| ----------- | :------: | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `entity_id` | `string` | Optional | An entity_id with state, i.e. `sensor.purifier_aqi`. |
| `attribute` | `string` | Optional | Attribute name of the stat, i.e. `filter_left`.      |
| `unit`      | `string` | Optional | Unit of measure, i.e. `hours`.                       |
| `subtitle`  | `string` | Optional | Friendly name of the stat, i.e. `Filter`.            |

### `actions` object

You can define [custom scripts][ha-scripts] for custom actions or add shortcuts for switching modes and speeds via `actions` option.

| Name                         |   Type   | Default  | Description                                                                                                                                     |
| ---------------------------- | :------: | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `name`                       | `string` | Optional | Friendly name of the action, i.e. `Switch to Auto`.                                                                                             |
| `icon`                       | `string` | Optional | Any icon for action button.                                                                                                                     |
| `service`                    | `string` | Optional | A service to call, i.e. `script.clean_air`.                                                                                                     |
| `service_data`               | `object` | Optional | `service_data` for `service` call                                                                                                               |
| `speed`                      | `object` | Optional | A `speed` to switch to, i.e. `Auto`, etc                                                                                                        |
| `xiaomi_miio_favorite_level` | `object` | Optional | A [favorite level][xiaomi-miio-favorite-levels] of the operation mode `Favorite` for Xioami Air Purifiers. `speed` is required with this option |

The card will automatically try to figure out which one of actions is currently active. The action will be highlighted when:

1. It's a service.
2. `entity`'s `speed` attribute is equal to `action`'s `speed`.
3. `entity`'s `speed` attribute and `favorite_level` is equal to `action`'s `speed` and `xiaomi_miio_favorite_level` correspondingly.

### `switch` object

| Name        |   Type   | Default  | Description                                         |
| ----------- | :------: | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| `entity_id` | `string` | Optional | An entity_id with state, i.e. `switch.purifier`.    |
| `attribute` | `string` | Optional | An attribute get switch state.                      |
| `value_on`  | `any`    | Optional | State/Attribute value if purifier is on.            |
| `value_off` | `any`    | Optional | State/Attribute value if purifier is off.           |

### `switch_on_action` and `switch_off_action` object

| Name              |   Type   | Default  | Description                                  |
| ----------------- | :------: | -------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| `service`         | `string` | Optional | A service to call, i.e. `script.turn_on`.    |
| `service_data`    | `object` | Optional | `service_data` for `service` call            |

## Animations

I've added an animation for this card to make it alive:

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3459374/94728037-48ee7000-0368-11eb-8637-c8bbc5ffaf99.gif" width="500px">

How did I make this animation? It's a long story…

1. I took original gif file from [here][original-gif].
2. Then I tweaked image levels to make the background black and purifier white.
3. Then I inverted colors on the gif.
4. Then I've split the gif by frame.
5. Then I removed the background of the image frame by frame using remove.bg.
6. Then I upscaled each of those images using icons8.com/upscaler.
7. Then I put up all of those images back in a single gif.
8. Profit!

Archive with images from all of these steps [can be found here](https://t.me/denysandtech/185).

## Supported languages

This card supports translations. Please, help to add more translations and improve existing ones. Here's a list of supported languages:

- English
- Українська (Ukrainian)
- Türkçe (Turkish)
- Français (French)
- Norsk (Norwegian)
- Polski (Polish)
- Български (Bulgarian)
- 简体中文 (Simplified Chinese)
- Deutsch (German)
- Català (Catalan)
- Русский (Russian)
- Italiano (Italian)
- [_Your language?_][add-translation]

## Supported models

This card relies on basic fan services, like `toggle`, `turn_on`, `turn_off`, etc. It should work with any air purifier, however I can physically test it only with my own purifier.

If this card works with your air purifier, please open a PR and your model to the list.

- Air Purifier 3/3H
- Air Purifier 2/2H/2S
- Air Purifier Pro
- Coway Airmega 300S/400S ([using IoCare custom component](https://github.com/sarahhenkens/home-assistant-iocare))
- Dyson Pure Humidify+Cool ([using Dyson integration](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/dyson/))
- Winix AM90 Wi-Fi Air Purifier
- Philips AirPurifier AC3858/50 (partially) 
- [_Your purifier?_][edit-readme]
- SmartMI Air Purifier

## Development

Want to contribute to the project?

First of all, thanks! Check [contributing guideline](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## Inspiration

This project is heavily inspired by:

- [MacBury Smart House][macbury-smart-house] — basically, this project is a refinement of MacBury's custom card.

Huge thanks for their ideas and efforts 👍

## License

MIT © [Denys Dovhan][denysdovhan]

<!-- Badges -->

[npm-url]: https://npmjs.org/package/purifier-card
[npm-image]: https://img.shields.io/npm/v/purifier-card.svg?style=flat-square
[hacs-url]: https://github.com/custom-components/hacs
[hacs-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/hacs-default-orange.svg?style=flat-square
[patreon-url]: https://patreon.com/denysdovhan
[patreon-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/support-patreon-F96854.svg?style=flat-square
[buymeacoffee-url]: https://patreon.com/denysdovhan
[buymeacoffee-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/support-buymeacoffee-222222.svg?style=flat-square
[twitter-url]: https://twitter.com/denysdovhan
[twitter-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/twitter-%40denysdovhan-00ACEE.svg?style=flat-square

<!-- References -->

[home-assistant]: https://www.home-assistant.io/
[hacs]: https://hacs.xyz
[preview-image]: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3459374/94727372-4ccdc280-0367-11eb-8294-1e5c06a1fe93.png
[latest-release]: https://github.com/denysdovhan/purifier-card/releases/latest
[ha-scripts]: https://www.home-assistant.io/docs/scripts/
[xiaomi-miio-favorite-levels]: https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/xiaomi_miio/#service-xiaomi_miiofan_set_favorite_level-air-purifiers-only
[original-gif]: https://github.com/macbury/SmartHouse/blob/master/home-assistant/www/custom-lovelace/air-purifier/standby.gif
[edit-readme]: https://github.com/denysdovhan/purifier-card/edit/master/README.md
[add-translation]: https://github.com/denysdovhan/purifier-card/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#how-to-add-translation
[macbury-smart-house]: https://macbury.github.io/SmartHouse/HomeAssistant/Lovelace/#air-purifier
[denysdovhan]: https://denysdovhan.com
